hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with good old-fashioned pancakes
that's right anybody can add water to a
box mix but you're better than that or
at least I assume you're better than
that so let me show you how to make your
own classic American diner style
old-fashioned pancakes so easy and here
we go so step one here we're gonna sift
our dry ingredients which is a flour
just regular all-purpose flour we're
gonna add some baking powder not soda
baking powder some salt and some sugar
and then we're gonna sift that now you
know I'm not big on sifting if I've said
it once I've said it a hundred times
there's no money in sifting okay but
here kind of important so I want you to
sift at this time once it's all sifted
we are going to add melted butter an egg
and some milk now one tip here I want
you to be standing there with your whisk
ready to go as soon as you add those wet
ingredients I want you to mix this
quickly okay so I popped that egg yolk
and then I whisk vigorously until it's
combined now why I want you to have the
whisk ready as soon as you add the wet
ingredients is because if you add that
butter and the egg and the cold milk and
then go look for the whisk and come back
five minutes later that cold milk will
have solidified that butter and it just
won't mix in as well so make sure you
have all your stuff handy and like I
said you're just gonna whisk that until
it comes together should look like that
looks like pancake batter all right I'm
gonna let that sit for five minutes to
give that baking powder a little chance
to sort of start doing its chemical
reaction thing and then you know the
rest it's the same as if you use that
package mix I'm gonna preheat a nice big
skillet on medium-high I'm gonna give it
a little light spraying with vegetable
oil and then I use a quarter cup
measuring scoop to make my pancakes all
right like the little ones you can make
giant big ones I guess but I like kind
of three smaller ones for a serving and
then the classic question how do I know
when to turn it well you've heard the
expression being able to read body
language here you have to be able to
read bubble language that's right
the bubbles will tell you first
you're gonna see bubbles around the
outside then you're gonna see bubbles
come up through the middle when the
bubbles come up through the middle turn
your pancake it works every time
so depending on your flame depending on
your pan medium to medium-high heat
should be perfect once you flip them the
other side goes a little quicker so if
the first I took 2-3 minutes maybe the
second side takes a minute to two
minutes but you'll know you know when
pancakes are cooked we're all born with
that ability it's in our DNA all right
I'm gonna transfer those to a warm plate
nothing says I don't really love you
that much like serving food on ice cold
plates so don't do that especially for
breakfast I'm gonna spread a little bit
of butter on top you know optional but
by optional I mean please do it it's not
pancakes let's get a little melted
butter on there and then cue gratuitous
maple syrup scene sorry I can't find my
sexy music sound clip but anyway you can
hum that part to yourself and there we
go good old-fashioned pancakes how
amazingly simple this is the classic
recipe not too thick not too thin tender
delicious just amazing so I really hope
you give these a try this was a very
popular food wish all the ingredients
are on food wishes calm as usual and as
always enjoy
[Music]